Hello, everybody. I'm here to talk about how we can make better error messages using the
cli package. The reason why I'm talking about this is I'm part of the tidymodels team, which
is a collection of packages for modeling and machine learning using tidymodels principles.
I am one of four full-time engineers working on that project, and we throw a lot of errors.
In fact, I did a count of some of the beta packages we have, and all in all, just the abort calls
from Rlang used to have over 1,000 just in 12 of our packages, and we have
between 40 and 50 packages right now. This covers the majority of the
packages we have, but we still have a lot to go through.
I like to think that the user, when using our packages, needs to follow a happy path,
and here we see one such path. But an important part about tolling on a happy path is that if you
stray away from the path, you're able to get back on it as soon as possible,
so you can go back into the right flow. This can be something as simple as having
good documentation to make sure that people, if they're stuck, know how to get unstuck, and
names and arguments make sense. But another big thing is the use of error messages that come out
if they do something wrong or something unexpected happens.
The happy path on this picture we see right here isn't actually that happy,
because if you fall to the left, you have a very hard time getting back on the path.
I like to think of that as this style of error message that we've all seen that doesn't say
anything. It's something that happened, but it doesn't tell you what to do, how to do it better.
This is an example of doing all the happy paths as seen in this picture,
where we're not helping you at all.
I like to think that helpful error messages that give you everything you need at the right time
is the same way as adding cloud rails to our path. This still lets you do everything you
need to do from A to B. You have beautiful scenery, but we're trying to help you
stay on the happy path, do what you need to do at all times.
I'm using the CLI package, and it can do a lot. The CLI, short for domain line interface,
and it gives you a much rich collection of functions and functionalities to create things
in the domain line interface, so the text output in your console. It can do things like lists and
headers and paragraphs, and it can do all these things with styling and theming. We can do rules
and trees and all these different things. It can do so much more than just what I'll be talking
about today, and I'll just be focusing on the error messages. But we can do it for anything
else. We also used it in making really nice print methods for some of our objects.
If you're familiar with rlang that has the abort function, you can essentially replace most of
those rlang abort calls with a CLI on the store abort call, and they function
almost identically. There's a few exercises you might run into.
One of the things you can do, so this isn't CLI specific. This is a thing that came with the rlang
idea, is the idea about passing calls around. So here we have a
rather simple example. We have the user facing function that takes in ads, then we have an
internal chatter that makes sure that the values are all positive or non-negative,
and then it takes the square root. It doesn't really matter what it does. The idea is we have
data coming in, then we do some chatting on it, and if it passes it, it goes on to do something.
When we normally write this, we get the following error message below,
where it says error in internal chatter, and then the error message was sent.
But we have the name of the internal chatter in the error message, and that
is better than nothing, but it still is a little confusing, especially for new
people coming in. They might not know what it is, and maybe we didn't
have a good name for the internal function. Here, it's just called internal chatter. It doesn't
at all tell you where the error is, especially if you have a really bad infrastructure of functions
in functions. It can be an error that happens all the way down somewhere, and you don't quite
know what it is. We see it a little bit in, if you're familiar with the tidy models, we create
a workflow with lesson recipes and some positive models, and then we tune those
inside a workflow. Then maybe the error is coming out from somewhere
in one of the recipes functions, but it's happening when we're calling a tune function,
so it's nice to be able to know where it's from, and we can't do that right now.
But we can do it if we pass the tall around. The main difference we see here is the internal
function. Here, we added a tall argument, and to that we passed in the arlang.tallerEnv
function. Essentially, what's happening here is when we run into this exception,
and it prints out the error message, instead of using the talling environment of the internal
chatter, it is using that talling environment, which is the next function up, which here is
the user facing function, so we have a nicer interface. And, of course, if we have these
nested multiple layers deep, we could pass this tall object around, so the talling environment
will be the one that the people use. This is one simple way of adding information to the user that
they really need. Another thing we can do with the CLI function is the idea of glue interpolation.
This is a little bit the same way as pasting things around, but instead of pasting in a
comma-separated sequence, we here use these curly brackets. Now, we have updated the error message
here, so we say x must be positive, not, and then curly bracket x. So what will happen when this is
run is it takes the value and interpolates it in, so the value we put in was minus five,
so curly bracket x is being replaced by minus five. So we can not only say something went wrong,
we can also say what was wrong. We can say, oh, it needs to be something, something.
Here's a very silly example, but it can become very useful later on to be able to say, oh, the
fifth value was negative and it was minus two, and then it's easier for the user to be like, oh,
let's go back and find the value in the input that was minus two, and this is what the error was,
instead of just saying something's wrong.
The last nicety around the CLI is it also has this idea of inline test formatting,
where we already had the curly brackets, but if we add this, almost like class names,
dot art dot about, there's a lot of different ones you can find in documentation. We can denote
the x as an argument and the interpolated value from earlier, we're saying it's a value.
So that gives you a standardized values about how to style different things across everything.
The way we write these functions, what we think about errors, is mostly like this. The data comes
in at the top and we have a series of chats. It can be one, it can be more than one, and then at
the end, we do something. We saw a little bit before, this is the same as this, where if we
have a lot of chats, we can pull them out into a standalone chattel, so we separate where everything
goes. With that, we have some priorities of how we write these functions. The first one is
that, ideally, we should throw the error as early as possible. If we need to know it's
need to be positive, check it right away, instead of doing a bunch of things and then
deal with what's used. That helps the user get back into the swing of things. Maybe
you have a function that needs a value, but also needs to connect to a database.
If you know the value needs to be a string, check it's a string before you connect to the database,
because that takes some time, so you can get back as fast as possible.
The chat itself, which is what we have here inside the if statement, everything is an if
statement, and then if it's true, we throw the error. The chat inside the if should ideally
calculate as fast as possible. It should just detect, are we wrong or not? Because then once
we're in, we can say, okay, now we know it's wrong. Then we can find out all the different
places it's wrong and construct the error that's informative. This allows the TOEFL,
when it does an error, to run as fast as possible. I'll be showing three different examples of how we
improved some of the error messages inside the models using the CLI framework,
which can do a lot more than I'm showing right now. We're seeing a little bit of what we can
do. Here we have our old error message. If we run the following code, we get this can't rename
variables in this context. It has words, but it doesn't at all say what. It's very unclear why
we throw an error right here. With our new error message, we're explaining why.
By saying that this function doesn't use the estimate argument, it needs to be specified just
in the dot auto-named argument, and we're even saying how to fix the error. Here, we specify
the TOEFL without the estimate equals. The way we're dealing with this is somewhere in a TOEFL
somewhere where we have an if statement, and here we're doing some fancy things.
We're getting the TOEFL, it doesn't explain the dots, we pull out the dots,
and we do the names. Basically, if the dots are named and estimate is in there,
which it isn't supposed to be, then we throw the error.
What we're passing to the abort thing is here actually a named vector. We have the
different elements are named here. One of them is named at, and one of them is named I,
and we can see this in the left-hand symbol on the thing. So, at is like the big red at,
and the I is this little blue I. There's a couple of shorthands for at, I, and exclamation point.
But we don't want everything to be red error all around. It's like, oh, here's the error,
and then a little I, how to fix it. We're passing it all through because this is in a helper function.
Another problem a lot of you have probably seen before is the idea of exhausting
the memory we have. This is an example where we're using recipes to create dummy variables,
but the variable we're creating dummy variables of has 100,000 unique values,
but it's just territory representation of the numbers one through 100,000, which would be a
really bad matrix. It's like 100,000 times 100,000 values. That's way too bad. But the
error we did bad comes from inside a base R function that says vector memory exhausted,
limit reached question mark. So, we don't get the error coming out saying, hey,
this is the way the function is. If this was inside another function you used,
it would be hard to know why this came out unless you remember this error.
Another little wrinkle in this error is that it's operating system specific. So,
it will look different if you're on Windows than if you're not on Windows.
Our new error uses CLI. We say it's coming from step dummy. It comes with,
and it now says that it contains too many levels. We're saying how many levels it had,
and then we're explaining that it would have resulted in a data frame that was too large.
Here it is a little bit more advanced because
we are using model matrix to try to create these dummy variables. If it doesn't work,
I want to throw the error instead because I want to reframe it. So, we're using this
try-catch statement at the top with the expression in it. If that expression does an error,
nothing happens. It's just this pipe. It's just assigned to indicators. But if there is an error,
then that error gets pumped into this function right here.
What we do is we take this condition, which is the error. The error is an object by itself.
I'm doing some regular expression on the message to see does it contain the words
better memory or cannot annotate. If that happens, then I pull out the number of levels and then
create a tall, just as you've seen before. If it can't find that, it will just let the error
message through as normal. So, it's foolproof in a way of like, if these words appeared,
we replace them with my warning or my error. But if it can't find it, it just moves along like normal.
You might have noticed here, it's just tall equals null. It's because Recipes itself is doing
something a little bit fancy about how to identify who throws the error. So, we have to specify it here.
Our last example here is also from Recipes. So, the old error right here said you can't
prep a TunableRecipe, arguments with tune, this threshold, and then a little suggestion.
But if you look above, we actually have the threshold, non-tomp, and degrees3
all tunable. So, this error is actually really annoying because if you fixed it and ran it again,
then if you remove this tune, it would come again saying, oh, non-tomp doesn't have it.
And this would be a lot. So, it's not the right way of handling it. Our new way of handling it
is we're listing out the steps. So, we're saying these steps have these arguments set to tune,
please fix. And we're doing something again. Again, at the top, number of rows that needs
tune is more than one. Very fast calculation to find out if this is a problem or not.
And then once we're in here, we're doing some things. We are
operating on this needs tuning data frame to find out what it needs.
The message we're creating is in two parts because the way this list right at the bottom
has the steps and the columns is hard to do. So, we are creating that using the step message.
Another nice thing we have here is we can add the pluralization. So, this
?s in the Turley-Brathead
will be added if there's more than one of the quantity we specified earlier. So,
if there's only one step, it will say the following step has. So, this is very neat in that way.
All right. And that's everything I have for you. I encourage you to go and look at the CLI package.
Thank you.